So we already had a look at a solid set of basics you need for building rack native apps for Brooking
with these core building blocks.
Either though of course a lot of the things are still unclear.
We have Drew we had a closer look at styling Adelaide outing and so on.
But one thing which we definitely should do now is also explore how you can build your own components
because thus far we always worked in the app has fallen.
You will certainly not build bigger apps in one file.
Only that file would get super big after all.
And if you have a custom component which you plan on repeating right now we would have to copy and paste
our code.
So let's create new components and therefore here in the project I'll add a new folder named components.
The name is up to you but since I plan on store some components in there that may make sense to me.
And in there I want to create a component for the list item and all to one for our input area.
So let's create two new files in there and I will have a naming convention for the files where I start
with capital case CHARACTERS AND I'LL HAVE MY GOAL item Doc J.S. it's a javascript file of course.
And my goal input dot J.S. file now both will hold normal react component so let's start with the goal
item and therefore import react from react just as you need to do it in a react for web project.
Then here all create my functional component goal item which gets props and which then has to return
some J as X here and I'll export this as a default just like this.
Now the J has X I want to render Dare has to use react native components or other custom components
which then in turn use React Native components.
And here all go with this content I had in here so I'll cut it from the app j ust file and return it
here.
Now in order to use this here we have to import the U.N. text.
So these two components from React Native.
So let's import view and text from react dash native here.
In addition I'm setting up some styles and I want to use the style sheets so I'll import this here as
well and then set up my styles constant which you could name differently of course with Styles she'd
create and I'll go back to the app J fall and grab my list item style here.
Cut it from data and go to the goal item and added here to this object I passed two styles sheet.
Create Now this should work but of course what I'm outputting here will no longer be on item data.
Instead let's expect that we simply get this as props so even props children so that it can be passed
between the opening and closing tag of our custom component or maybe props title whatever you want a
proper name of your choice then now we can use our custom component to goal item by going back to the
app just fall in here I'll add import to goal item with a capital G so that react recognizes this as
a custom component from dot slash components goal item you can omit deep thought J.S. and now we can
use goal item down here in render item as a custom component in this case a self closing component because
since I'm using props title and not props children I don't expect anything between the opening and closing
tax of my custom component I do expect the title prop though so let's set this here with title and then
here we can point at item data then get access at the item which is object where we have a value key
and with that we should still see the same as before if we enter some goals here learn all about R N
Yeah that's looking good now with our custom component now here's a good practice for you to also put
de text input and button or doesn't tire of you here actually into our goal input component and of course
for Dad you'll also need to wire up communication between the app chairs fall into goal input component
to be informed when users press this button in the goal input component and then add data here in the
app as follows.
It's how you would do it in a react for web project Q So if you have experience with dad it should be
no problem otherwise we'll do it together in the next lecture but if you know how to do it definitely
try it on your own first.
Now.